About Dataset

https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rishikumarrajvansh/marketing-insights-for-e-commerce-company?select=Online_Sales.csv

** Inputs related to Analysis for additional reference:**

    Why do we need customer Segmentation?
    As every customer is unique and can be targeted in different ways. The Customer segmentation
    plays an important role in this case. The segmentation helps to understand profiles of customers and
    can be helpful in defining cross sell/upsell/activation/acquisition strategies.
    What is RFM Segmentation?
    RFM Segmentation is an acronym of recency, frequency and monetary based segmentation.
    Recency is about when the last order of a customer. It means the number of days since a customer
    made the last purchase. If it’s a case for a website or an app, this could be interpreted as the last
    visit day or the last login time.
    Frequency is about the number of purchases in a given period. It could be 3 months, 6 months or 1
    year. So we can understand this value as for how often or how many customers used the product of
    a company. The bigger the value is, the more engaged the customers are.
    Alternatively
    We can define, average duration between two transactions
    Monetary is the total amount of money a customer spent in that given period. Therefore big
    spenders will be differentiated with other customers such as MVP or VIP.
    What is LTV and How to define it?
    In the current world, almost every retailer promotes its subscription and this is further used to
    understand the customer lifetime. Retailer can manage these customers in better manner if they
    know which customer is high life time value.
    Customer lifetime value (LTV) can also be defined as the monetary value of a customer relationship,
    based on the present value of the projected future cash flows from the customer relationship.
    Customer lifetime value is an important concept in that it encourages firms to shift their focus from
    quarterly profits to the long-term health of their customer relationships. Customer lifetime value is
    an important metric because it represents an upper limit on spending to acquire new customers. For
    this reason it is an important element in calculating payback of advertising spent in marketing mix
    modelling.
    Why do need to predict Customer Lifetime Value?
    The LTV is an important building block in campaign design and marketing mix management.
    Although targeting models can help to identify the right customers to be targeted, LTV analysis can
    help to quantify the expected outcome of targeting in terms of revenues and profits. The LTV is also
    important because other major metrics and decision thresholds can be derived from it.
    For example, the LTV is naturally an upper limit on the spending to acquire a customer, and the sum
    of the LTVs for all of the customers of a brand, known as the customer equity, is a major metric forbusiness valuations. Similarly to many other problems of marketing analytics and algorithmic
    marketing, LTV modelling can be approached from descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive
    perspectives.
    How Next Purchase Day helps to Retailers?
    Our objective is to analyse when our customer will purchase products in the future so for such
    customers we can build strategy and can come up with strategies and marketing campaigns
    accordingly.
    a. Group-1: Customers who will purchase in more than 60 days
    b. Group-2: Customers who will purchase in 30-60 days
    c. Group-3: Customers who will purchase in 0-30 days
    What is Cohort Analysis? How it will be helpful?
    A cohort is a group of users who share a common characteristic that is identified in this report by an
    Analytics dimension.
    For example, all users with the same Acquisition Date belong to the same cohort.
    The Cohort Analysis report lets you isolate and analyze cohort behaviour.
    Cohort analysis in e-commerce means to monitor your customers’ behaviour based on common
    traits they share – the first product they bought, when they became customers, etc. - - to find
    patterns and tailor marketing activities for the group.

Transaction data has been provided for the period of 1st Jan 2019 to 31st Dec 2019. The below data
sets have been provided.
Online_Sales.csv: This file contains actual orders data (point of Sales data) at transaction level with
below variables.
CustomerID: Customer unique ID
Transaction_ID: Transaction Unique ID
Transaction_Date: Date of Transaction
Product_SKU: SKU ID – Unique Id for product
Product_Description: Product Description
Product_Cateogry: Product Category
Quantity: Number of items ordered
Avg_Price: Price per one quantity
Delivery_Charges: Charges for delivery
Coupon_Status: Any discount coupon applied
Customers_Data.csv: This file contains customer’s demographics.
CustomerID: Customer Unique ID
Gender: Gender of customer
Location: Location of Customer
Tenure_Months: Tenure in Months
Discount_Coupon.csv: Discount coupons have been given for different categories in different
months
Month: Discount coupon applied in that month
Product_Category: Product category
Coupon_Code: Coupon Code for given Category and given month
Discount_pct: Discount Percentage for given coupon
Marketing_Spend.csv: Marketing spend on both offline & online channels on day wise.
Date: Date
Offline_Spend: Marketing spend on offline channels like TV, Radio, NewsPapers, Hordings etc…
Online_Spend: Marketing spend on online channels like Google keywords, facebook etc..
Tax_Amount.csv: GST Details for given category
Product_Category: Product Category
GST: Percentage of GST
**
Key Definitions:**
Invoice Value: Invoice Value =(( QuantityAvg_price)(1-Dicount_pct)*(1+GST))+Delivery_Charges
Average order value = Revenue / Transaction per customer
Profit Margin Profit margin is the commonly used profitability ratio. It represents how much
percentage of total sales has earned as the gain.
Purchase Frequency is the average number of purchases made by a customer over a defined period
of time (typically one month or one year). It is the sum of total number transactions divided by total
number customers.
Repeat rate shows you the percentage of your current customer base that has come back to shop
again.
Churn Rate is the annual percentage rate at which customers stop subscribing.
Customer lifetime value, lifetime customer value, or life-time value is a prediction of the net
profit/revenue attributed to the entire future relationship with a customer.
