The e-commerce company is expecting below analysis using the data

    Calculate Invoice amount or sale_amount or revenue for each transaction and item level
     Invoice Value =(( QuantityAvg_price)(1-Dicount_pct)*(1+GST))+Delivery_Charges
    Perform Detailed exploratory analysis
     Understanding how many customers acquired every month
     Understand the retention of customers on month on month basis
     How the revenues from existing/new customers on month on month basis
     How the discounts playing role in the revenues?
     Analyse KPI’s like Revenue, number of orders, average order value, number of
    customers (existing/new), quantity, by category, by month, by week, by day etc…
     Understand the trends/seasonality of sales by category, location, month etc…
     How number order varies and sales with different days?
     Calculate the Revenue, Marketing spend, percentage of marketing spend out of
    revenue, Tax, percentage of delivery charges by month.
     How marketing spend is impacting on revenue?
     Which product was appeared in the transactions?
     Which product was purchased mostly based on the quantity?
    Performing Customer Segmentation
     Heuristic (Value based, RFM) – Divide the customers into Premium, Gold, Silver,
    Standard customers and define strategy on the same.
     Scientific (Using K-Means) & Understand the profiles. Define strategy for each
    segment.
    Predicting Customer Lifetime Value (Low Value/Medium Value/High Value)
     First define dependent variable with categories low value, medium value, high value
    using customer revenue.
     Then perform Classification model
    Cross-Selling (Which products are selling together)
     You can perform exploratory analysis & market basket analysis to understand which
    of items can be bundled together.
    Predicting Next Purchase Day(How soon each customer can visit the store (0-30 days, 30-60
    days, 60-90 days, 90+ days)
     For this, we need create dependent variable at customer level (average days per one
    transaction for only repeat customers and divide into groups 0-30 days, 30-60 days,
    60-90 days and 90+ days) then build classification model to predict next purchase of
    given customer.
    Perform cohort analysis by defining below cohorts
     Customers who started in each month and understand their behaviour
     Which Month cohort has maximum retention?
